Welcome back.
So far we've only seen one of the primitive types we've been working with no.
We talked about numbers how they work different numeric operators who made variables with numbers but
there are multiple other primitive types and we're gonna dress them.
So first of all we're gonna talk about boolean very quickly.
It's simple short and easy.
Primitive types to discuss and then we'll come back to strings in the next video.
So billions are simply true or false values.
There's only two options.
If you're using a Boolean true or false they are very efficient.
As far as how much space they take up because there's only two options and we use them all the time
and the main reason for that will become clearer later on.
And once we talk about logic and how we write logic using JavaScript So True or false we can make a
variable with them.
That's it to make a boolean it looks like this.
If you wanted to you can go ahead and type true that is a boolean and you can type false that's it.
No quotes around them.
If you're familiar with strings this is not a boolean.
It says the word true but it is not the Boolean true.
This is special as you can see here.
Just like with numbers we can store boolean values in a variable.
So here are three examples.
Let is logged in.
Equals true.
It starts out as true and potentially it would be false.
Later on if someone logs out we have game over equals false.
So the game starts.
Game over is false.
It's not over.
And then the user dies or does something bad in the game and so game over becomes true and then const
is water what equals true.
I use const here because is water wet should not change.
Hopefully water should always be wet and that's it.
We can make a variable just like that so we'll do one example.
Keep it short let's do is hungry and I'll set that to true and we look at it as hungry.
It's true surprise.
And we're using less so we could set it to false.
There we go.
The only other thing I'll talk about in this video a very important topic in JavaScript or an important
idea is that variables can change.
Type if you have experience with any other programming language well maybe not any other but many other
languages.
When you declare a variable and you make it a number it needs to stay a number in JavaScript there is
no restriction on that.
We can change a number to a Boolean at any point.
That's not saying it's a good idea at all.
In fact it's one of the things a lot of people don't like about JavaScript and it's why things like
TypeScript exist.
If you're familiar with typescript if you've heard the word or the name it is built on top of JavaScript
and it adds in stricter rules and one of those rules is that your variables cannot change type.
So I could make a boolean variable let is hungry.
I already have that one I'll get an error if I read declare it.
Let's do let is angry.
Set to false.
And then I could change is angry to now be 1 2 3 9.
No problem.
So again not something that you usually would do or that really makes a lot of sense.
But it's possible in JavaScript and other than that the main takeaway is that we can have variables
of all sorts of types of JavaScript.
We've only seen numbers so far but now we've covered our second primitive type.
Boolean true and false.
That's it.